Homework 5: Distributed Computing with Message Passing
1. Distributed Pairing 1 (a client-server application) 
Assume that a class has n students numbered 1 to n and one teacher. The teacher wants to assign the students to groups of two for a project. The teacher does so by having every student submit a request for a partner. The teacher takes the first two requests, forms a group from those students, and lets each student know their partner. The teacher then takes the following two requests, forms a second group, and so on. If n is odd, the last student "partners" with themself.

Model the students as client processes and the teacher as a server process. Develop and implement a distributed client-server application that includes the server (teacher) and clients (students). When your application terminates, each student process should print their index (a number or a name) and the index (a number or a name) of the student's partner. You can implement your distributed application in C using the MPI library or Java using the Java socket API or Java RMI. Your application must be distributed. In comments in the program or a README file, explain your solution (algorithm) shortly. 

2. Distributed Pairing 2 (a peer-to-peer application) 
As in the previous problem, we want to assign n students numbered 1 to n to groups of two for a project. However, the teacher does not want to be involved in forming the groups. Instead, he asks the students to interact with each other to pair up into groups. In particular, the students must devise a single algorithm every student executes. Develop a distributed pairing algorithm for the students. An ideal solution will use only n messages. The algorithm should use random numbers so that the outcome is non-deterministic. The teacher starts the algorithm by picking one student randomly and sending a message to that student saying, in effect, "your turn to pick a partner." 

Model the students and the teachers as distributed processes. Develop and implement a distributed peer-to-peer application that includes the teacher peer and several student peers executing the distributed pairing algorithm you have developed. When your application terminates, each student process should print their index (a number or a name) and the index (a number or a name) of the student's partner. You can implement your distributed application in C using the MPI library or in Java using the socket API or Java RMI. Your application must be distributed. In comments in the program or a README file, explain your solution (algorithm) shortly. 